B2B - accessibility improvements (#3097)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/pbc/all/accessibility-improvement/202410.0/b2b/install-the-spryker-accessibility-improvements.md

---
title: Accessibility improvements
description: Learn how install accessibility improvements.
last_updated: March 31, 2025
template: feature-integration-guide-template
---

Keyboard accessibility improvements include the following changes:

> - Enhanced Accessibility: Made several interface elements more accessible. You can now navigate more logically using the Tab key, and screen readers provide better descriptions of elements.

Author: Because changes were not for some specific element but for the site UI in general. Some elements have new components inside and some of them have only UI changes

> - Keyboard-Friendly Search: Improved the way keyboard users can interact with the product search suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keyboard-Friendly Search: Users can now interact with search suggestions using the keyboard.
```

- Better Visual Clarity: Adjusted the color scheme across the site to ensure text stands out better from its background, making it easier for everyone to read.

To install Yves keyboard accessibility improvements, take the following steps:

1. Update modules:
  - Update the `spryker-shop/catalog-page` module to version `1.29.0` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/company-page` module to version `1.32.0` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/customer-page` module to version `1.58.0` or later.1.2
  - Update the `spryker-shop/product-group-widget` module to version `1.11.1` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/product-review-widget` module to version `1.16.2` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/shop-ui` module to version `1.84.0` or later.

* To update necessary modules run the following command:
```bash

>     composer update spryker-shop/catalog-page spryker-shop/company-page spryker-shop/customer-page spryker-shop/product-group-widget spryker-shop/product-review-widget spryker-shop/shop-ui

Reviewer 2: Please specify versions.

```
<!-- {% raw %} -->
2. Adjust templates and files on the project level.
- Rename `{% block body %}` to `{% block viewport %}` at `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/organisms/header/header.twig` to enable `skip-link`. Pass this attribute into the `header` organism from `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-main/page-layout-main.twig`
- Pass `navigationId` attribute with its value as `navigationId` (variable from the Spryker Core) to the call of the `header` organism at `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/organisms/header/header.twig` to enable `skip-link`. Pass this attribute into the `header` organism from `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-main/page-layout-main.twig`

  ```twig
    {% embed organism('header') with {
        data: {
            ...
        },
        attributes: {
            navigationId: navigationId,
        },
    } only %}

>   ```

Reviewer: Why are there two changes and only one code snippet?

Author: Text was changed. First line does not code snippet as it's just a word change

<!-- {% endraw %} -->

> - Define and use as navigation ID `navigationId` attribute at `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/organisms/header/header.twig`

Reviewer: Use where?

Author: Adjusted

<!-- {% raw %} -->
```twig
  {% define attributes = {
    navigationId: '',
  } %}
 
  ...
  
  <div class="{{ config.name }}__navigation" id="{{ attributes.navigationId }}">
```
<!-- {% endraw %} -->

- Add `skip-link` and ID attribute (href for `skip-link`) to 

>   - src/Pyz/Yves/CatalogPage/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-catalog/page-layout-catalog.twig (`catalogProductListId` is the ID for the `skip-link`)

Reviewer: What are you trying to explain by the info in parentheses?

Author: Changed

       <!-- {% raw %} -->
       ```twig
       {% block content %}
          {% include molecule('skip-link') with {
             data: {
                href: catalogProductListId,
                text: 'global.skip-to-products' | trans,
             },
          } only %}
       ... 
    
    
       <div class="col col--sm-12 col--lg-8 col--xl-9" id="{{ catalogProductListId }}"> //Wrapper for the page content
       ```
       <!-- {% endraw %} -->

>        - src/Pyz/Yves/CompanyPage/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-company/page-layout-company.twig

Reviewer: Instructions missing

Author: Single instruction for different templates

          ...     
       ```
       <!-- {% endraw %} -->

- Adjust `mapEvents` method by adding `tabIndex` attribute and `focusin` event listener at `src/Pyz/Yves/ProductImageWidget/Theme/default/components/molecules/image-gallery/image-gallery.ts`
   
  ```js
      protected mapEvents(): void {
        this.thumbnailSlider.on('mouseenter', '.slick-slide', (event: Event) => this.onThumbnailHover(event));
        this.thumbnailSlider.on('afterChange', (event: Event, slider: $) => this.onAfterChange(event, slider));
        Array.from(this.querySelectorAll(`.slick-slide`)).forEach((button: HTMLButtonElement) => {
            button.setAttribute('tabindex', '0');
            button.addEventListener('focusin', (event: Event) => this.onThumbnailHover(event));
        })
      }
  ```
- Enable `accessibility` param for the image slider config at the `src/Pyz/Yves/ProductImageWidget/Theme/default/components/molecules/image-gallery/image-gallery.ts`

  <!-- {% raw %} -->
    ```twig
    {% define attributes = {
      'config-thumbnail-slider': '{
        ...
        "accessibility": true,
    ```
  <!-- {% endraw %} -->

> - Adjust `mapEvents` and add new `browseFileLabelHandler` method and `src/Pyz/Yves/QuickOrderPage/Theme/default/components/molecules/quick-order-file-upload/quick-order-file-upload.ts`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In `src/Pyz/Yves/QuickOrderPage/Theme/default/components/molecules/quick-order-file-upload/quick-order-file-upload.ts`, adjust `mapEvents` and add a `browseFileLabelHandler` method: 
```

          return;
      }
  
      event.preventDefault();
      this.browseFileLabel.dispatchEvent(new MouseEvent('click'));
    }
  ```
- Adjust `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/molecules/navigation-multilevel/navigation-multilevel.ts` by adding `focusin` and `focusout` event listeners
  ```js
   protected mapEvents(): void {
    this.triggers.forEach((trigger: HTMLElement) => {
        trigger.addEventListener('mouseover', (event: Event) => this.onTriggerOver(event));
        trigger.addEventListener('focusin', (event: Event) => this.onTriggerOver(event));
    });
    this.triggers.forEach((trigger: HTMLElement) => {
        trigger.addEventListener('mouseout', (event: Event) => this.onTriggerOut(event));
        trigger.addEventListener('focusout', (event: Event) => this.onTriggerOut(event));
    });
    ...
  ```
- Add `parent-class-name` attribute to the call of the `suggest-search` molecule at `src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/molecules/search-form/search-form.twig`

<!-- {% raw %} -->
  ```twig
    {% include molecule('suggest-search') with {
      attributes: {
        'parent-class-name': config.name,
        ...
  ```
<!-- {% endraw %} -->
 

> - Adjust styles for the following components

Author: Changed text

  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/atoms/checkbox/checkbox.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/molecules/custom-select/custom-select.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/molecules/product-item/product-item.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/molecules/slick-carousel/slick-carousel.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/molecules/user-navigation/user-navigation.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/components/organisms/navigation-top/navigation-top.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/styles/basics/_reset.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/styles/helpers/_outline.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/styles/settings/_z-index.scss
  - src/Pyz/Yves/ShopUi/Theme/default/styles/shared.scss
  

> 1. Build Javascript and CSS changes:

Reviewer 2: Something is wrong with numeration.

```bash
  console frontend:project:install-dependencies
  console frontend:yves:build -e production
```

2. Generate translation cache for Yves:

```bash
  console data:import glossary
```
<hr />

> #### Link to the repository with this changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Integration PR with an example:
```

> https://github.com/spryker-shop/b2b-demo-marketplace/tree/8ce31915e05e5c6f0e6f8058d2a387156608deb6

Reviewer 2: Suggest to put a link to PR.

---
title: Install the Spryker core keyboard accessibility improvements

> description: Learn how to the Spryker core keyboard accessibility improvements.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if I get this description.

last_updated: March 31, 2025
template: feature-integration-guide-template
---

Keyboard accessibility improvements include the following changes:

- Adjusted multiple components to be more accessible via keyboard:
  - Added `aria-label` attributes to the multiple components to improve screen reader support
  - Adjusted `tabIndex` attributes to improve keyboard navigation
- Add a new attribute `parent-class-name` for the `suggest-search` component that helps to improve keyboard accessibility for the product searching process.

> - Improved color schema for better text to background contrast

Reviewer 2: - Enhanced Accessibility: Made several interface elements more accessible. You can now navigate more logically using the Tab key, and screen readers provide better descriptions of elements.

- Keyboard-Friendly Search: Improved the way keyboard users can interact with the product search suggestions.

- Better Visual Clarity: Adjusted the color scheme across the site to ensure text stands out better from its background, making it easier for everyone to read.

To install Yves keyboard accessibility improvements, take the following steps:

1. Update modules:
  - Update the `spryker-shop/catalog-page` module to version `1.29.0` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/company-page` module to version `1.32.0` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/customer-page` module to version `1.58.0` or later.1.2
  - Update the `spryker-shop/product-group-widget` module to version `1.11.1` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/product-review-widget` module to version `1.16.2` or later.
  - Update the `spryker-shop/shop-ui` module to version `1.84.0` or later.
* To update necessary modules run the following command:
```bash
  composer update "MODULE_NAME"
```

> 2. Adjust templates and files on the project lvl.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Adjust templates and files on the project level.
```

>    - Add `skip-link` and ID attribute (href for `skip-link`) to 

Reviewer 2: Usually we are providing code samples for better understading.

     - src/Pyz/Yves/CatalogPage/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-catalog/page-layout-catalog.twig
     - src/Pyz/Yves/CompanyPage/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-company/page-layout-company.twig
     - src/Pyz/Yves/CustomerPage/Theme/default/templates/page-layout-customer/page-layout-customer.twig

>     - Adjust `src/Pyz/Yves/ProductImageWidget/Theme/default/components/molecules/image-gallery/image-gallery.ts`

Reviewer 2: It doesn't work. We need to describe it, or maybe we can link a reference PR, but we haven't done it before. We can discuss it with TW/AA probably.
